BSL cannot be translated into English, however it can be transcribed. Therefore whenever we translate BSL into Engish we capitalise it to indicate a sign in written form. This is useful for compound signs - those with more than one individual sign - to help you, the learner to understand how BSL sign order and sentence structure differs to English sentence structure.
BSL is a visual-gestural language, and therefore does not use sound. For non-signers who are learning BSL, this can be overwhelming as you are accustomed using sounds to communicate and we often instinctive say the sign aloud - You should try to avoid this. As you become more sufficient as BSL you will become more familiar with which signs require lip movement and which signs don't. For the meanwhile, to help you associate a sign with an English word try just miming the word to recognise the accompanying sign. This will help you remember the sign.  This will also help with your lip reading skills, which is important for when you have a sign that has more than one meaning.
As you seen in the video tutorials, signs can be made in various places in relation to the signers body. The main places where signs take place are the head, arms, hands, upper body and the neutral space in front of the signer. To help you distinguish a sign recognising it location can benefit your recollection of the sign at a future date, when the sign is required for conversing.
Sign configuration is the handshape which is required to complete a sign. A sign may only require the signers dominant hand or both the signers primary and secondary hand. It is important to have the handshape of correct or the sign may be misinterpreted.
Sign Action is the movement which the manual hand movements will generate to complete a sign. The are multiple directions of movement that compose a sign, to name a few: down, side to side, towards the signer, away from signer and to and from.
Sign Synonym is another word for "Sign also means". Similar to spoken English words a fair number of them that have similar phonological sounds typically have roughly the same meaning. This is similar with BSL, where signs can have multiple keywords. It best to mouth the word you wish to use alongside the sign in this case to help the person you are conversing understandig which keyword you are signing.