British Sign Language (BSL) is the official language used by the majority of Deaf people in the UK. BSL users are Deaf people, who are mostly born Deaf, to either Deaf or hearings parents. Other users include those that are hearing, yet are born to Deaf parents or those with Deaf relatives. The recent 2011 census estimated that BSL is the preferred language of around people 87,000. Despite its sufficient number of users, it was only until 2003 that BSL was officially recognised as an indigenous language by the UK government. Spoken languages utilise the “vocal-auditory” channel - words that are produced by the mouth and perceived by the ear. In contrast, Sign language make use of the “corporal-visual” channel - which is produced by the body and perceived by the eyes. Sign language is used by Deaf people by creating visual movements through space. Interpretations of words are called Signs - which are manually created through the combination of hand gestures, facial expressions, lip patterns and body language.
Fingerspelling consists of 26 different signs, similar to the Alphabet consists of 26 letters. Fingerspelling is the BSL equivalent of the English Alphabet. The BSL fingerspelling signs take place at different locations, and have different handshapes & movements. In BSL both hands are used, whereas in American Sign Language and most other sign languages only one hand is used. One tip to help new learners is that the english vowels A-E-I-O-U all go across the tip of the fingers, with A being the thumb and U being the pinky. Fingerspelling is primarily used to spell out Names of people, and places. It is also commonly used to spell out words where a sign has yet to be created for.
Deaf Culture is the general term which was derived in the 1970s to describe the Deaf communities own way of life, their characteristics, beliefs and behaviour. Deaf community, is based upon deafness, communication and mutual support to one another. Deaf people within Deaf communities take pride in their traditions, values & culture and consider themselves to be part of an ethnolinguistic minority group, rather than to be considered as someone with a disability. A major part of Deaf Culture is their history: A notable time in Deaf History was in 1880, when the International Congress on the Education of the Deaf (ICED) in Milan stipulated that all educational settings were to ban the use of sign language. Hearing-lead systems promoted the idea of oralism which was imposed upon Deaf individuals, primarily young children to be educated in an oral educational setting that forced the use of speech and lipreading and hearing aids. It was believed that by prohibiting the use of sign language, Deaf students would enhance their abilities in spoken languages. As late as the 1980s, Deaf Communities faced oppression from the Hearing world. It hasn’t been until 2010 that the detrimental effects of Milan 1880 Congress on Deaf child was deemed unacceptable and a formal apology was made by ICED to the Deaf community worldwide. Partly due to this, the Deaf community view themselves as a separate community from those in the hearing world.
There is unfortunately several misconceptions about Deaf people. The first common and enduring myth is that all Deaf people have strong reading & writing ability. This is not true. For some Deaf people they find it very difficult to read English as it most likely their second language. Communicating via written English can be highly stressful for Deaf people - try learning a few essential BSL signs to assist the communication gap.  Another misconception is that Deaf people are great lipreaders. Lipreading is an extremely difficult skill to acquire and requires intense concentration - even then only 25% to 30% of words can be caught by even the most skilled lipreaders. Do not try to over pronounce words and ensure your mouth is clearly visible to the Deaf people you are talking too - these important facts can be extremely useful.